First, I'm going to demo the Spring Initializr,
and we will open the code in the IDE and execute it.
First, I'm going to show you Spring Initializr.
I find this website to be very useful.
You can also use Spring Initializr from within your IDE.
So let's take a look at it.
Now, what this tool is going to do,
it's going to generate the base code and all of the
dependencies in the Maven POM file for you.
So it's a great way to jump‑start your application development.
For Project, we're using Maven, Language, Java.
For the version, just leave it to the defaulted version.
For the Project Metadata, let's change this to be something more descriptive,
Let's say pluralsight, and for the Artifact,
let's say fundamentals.
Now, this is where we go in and add dependencies.
This is a very useful feature.
So, for example,
if you are doing a web application and you want to include the web dependency,
you search for it, and then you click on it,
and it would be added to the list.
For example, if you need to include an H2 in‑memory database,
you can search and add that.
Let's say you wanted to use JPA.
You can search for that dependency, click on it, and add it.
For now, I will just use the Spring Web Starter.
Then you click on Generate project.
What it's going to do, it's going to download and save a ZIP file,
and then you can open that ZIP file in your IDE.
So I've done just that, and let's navigate to IntelliJ.
Let's look at everything that the Spring Initializr generated for us.
First, let's go to the Maven POM file.
Let's expand that.
So notice we have a Maven POM file that is already filled out for us.
Let's start back here on lines 5 through 10 and
talk about this parent dependency.
So the spring‑boot‑starter dependency here,
shown on line 7, is for all Spring Boot projects.
They typically have this parent dependency,
and parent POMs allow you to manage the version of
dependencies for multiple child modules at once.
This means you can omit version tags for each child dependency.
Spring‑boot‑starter specifies the default configuration for several plugins.
And let's scroll down.
The next dependency that was added, here on line 24,
spring‑boot‑starter This is the core starter,
and it includes auto‑configuration support,
logging, YAML support, et cetera.
Notice here the spring‑boot‑starter‑test on line 29.
That was included.
Spring‑boot‑starter‑test includes Spring tests,
JUnit, Hamcrest, Mockito, and other useful testing frameworks.
And now notice that we didn't need to specify a version number
for this dependency or for this dependency,
really for any of the dependencies,
and that's because we're using that parent POM.
If you remember, I added the web dependency,
so that's why we see here on line 35.
We will talk more about this dependency in detail later.
Now let's look at the main method.
So the main classes called FundamentalsApplication,
and let's take a look at that.
This is the SpringBootApplication launch class.
It's used to bootstrap and launch a Spring application from
a Java main method shown here on line 8.
So this is just the standard main method that follows the Java convention
for an application entry point. Notice here on line 9, the method delegates
to Spring Boot's SpringApplication class by calling the run method. Up here
on line 6, this @SpringBootApplication annotation, it bootstraps our
application by starting Spring.
Typically,
it will create an instance of Spring's application context, expose
command‑line arguments as Spring properties, load Spring beans,
et cetera.
So here on line 9 we need to pass in the
FundamentalsApplication.class as an argument to the run method to
identify the primary Spring component. Here, the args array is also
passed through to expose any command‑line arguments.
Let's quickly test this very simple application using the included test.
It's a very simple test that only tests the application's context.
So let's run this test, and let's look at the results.
So, as expected, this test passed.
It's very simple,
but this is something that was generated as a part
of the Spring Initializr setup.
Now let's test our application.
I've navigated back to FundamentalsApplication.java, and let's just run this.
We should eventually see Hello Pluralsight in the output.
Here it is.
That was a quick look at the Spring Initializr, which will help you bootstrap your Spring Boot applications.